{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Kumite - A sparring video game}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 June 7, 2021 by Ian Colquhoun}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 --Note--}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 This design document for }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is scoped for a minimum viable product. There will be features lacking that would be present in a more polished version.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Overview}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Inspired by }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Karate Tournament}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Nidhogg,}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Virtua Fighter}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  seeks to refine the pre-Street Fighter II design of early fighting games by returning to a more deliberate, tactical style of gameplay. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Players fight in flat 3D arenas, fighting traditional rounds\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 first to three\hich\f0 \emdash \loch\f0 with health points and a timer.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Character Select}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 There are no unique characters in }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Players select their gi colour to distinguish themselves in a match, but characters will otherwise appear identical.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Health}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Like in }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Karate Tournament}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , players in }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 have 6 points of health.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Time Out}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If the timer runs out, the player with the most health will win the round. If both players\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92 health is tied, the round counts as a draw, and a round will be awarded to both players. Games cannot end as a draw and if the final match draws, extra rounds are played until there is a single winner.}}