{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 monospace,monospace;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 sans-serif;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red248\green249\blue250;\red32\green33\blue34;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Controls}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is played using a Joystick (}{\f2\fs20\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8593\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  and three buttons: Punch (P), Kick (K), and Evade (E).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Stances}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Unique to Kumite is the stance system. Similar to games like Nidhogg, the player can hold up\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8593\'3F or down\u8595\'3F on the joystick to switch to high or low stances. This changes what height of attacks will be used and what kinds of moves the player can guard against. When the joystick is neutral, the player is in mid stance. If an attack is active for multiple frames, as long as the first frame is correctly blocked, the defending player can switch out of that stance without getting hit.  Most moves in fighting games are active for 1 or 2 frames.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Blocking}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Blocking in }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  is automatic and will succeed if the player is not attacking, dashing, or evading while in the correct stance. Kumite does not have chip damage. If one player holds the joystick up to strike high, the other player must be holding the joystick up}{\f2\fs20\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8593\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  in the high stance to block the strike.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Punches and Kicks}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Normal attacks (P) and (K). Generally, punches have shorter range but come out faster, while kicks have longer range but take more time to come out. Hitting the enemy with the joystick in neutral will produce a middle attack, while holding up}{\f2\fs20\b0\i0\cf1\cb3\highlight3 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8593\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  while attacking strikes high, and holding down}{\f3\fs20\b1\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8595\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  while attacking strikes low. Striking a standing opponent will do 1 point of damage, while striking an enemy from the side or behind will do 1.5 points of damage.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Followup Attacks}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  does not have a conventional combo system. Rather, normal attacks can follow up with one other normal attack, in any of the three stances. There is a short delay between the first attack and the followup, to give the defending player a chance to block the second attack, even if they were hit by the first move. If both attacks hit the enemy, they will be knocked down. If the first attack whiffs, the followup attack will come out with reduced startup time. Followup attacks do 1 point of damage.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Power Attacks}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Power Attacks are performed by pressing Punch and Kick together (P+K). Power Attacks are slower strikes with long windups that guarantee a knockdown and do 3 points of damage.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Evade}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Evade (E) will be covered in the Movement section.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Input Buffer}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Input buffers function as normal in other fighting games. Like in }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Virtua Fighter 5}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  has an input buffer time of 10 frames.}}