{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 States}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Standing}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Standard state.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Knocked Down}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Players enter the Knockdown state after being hit by an attack and its followup attack, a power attack, or from falling off the arena. In this state the player cannot be hit, and both players are reset to their default positions in the middle of the arena.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Side/Back Turned}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Characters enter the Side Turned state from evading. When side turned, players cannot block. Neutral attacks do 1.5 damage to side turned opponents. When a player has been hit during the side turned state, they will instantly return to standing state. It takes 3 frames to be able to face forward and block, or evade. After the 3 frames are up, pressing any direction will return the player to standing state. Forward dashes do not input buffer when Side Turned. Standing players attacking Side Turned players get a +2 frame bonus on hit.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Ringed Out}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If a player falls outside of the ring, they will suffer a knockdown and player locations will be reset to their default spots in the middle of the ring. The player that rings out will suffer 2 points of damage.}}