{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 sans-serif;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 sans-serif;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 monospace,monospace;}{\f4\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}{\f5\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red32\green33\blue34;\red248\green249\blue250;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Walking}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Players can walk by holding the Joystick left}{\f1\fs-2\b1\i0\cf3\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8592\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  or right}{\f1\fs-2\b1\i0\cf3\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Holding diagonals (}{\f2\fs24\b0\i0\cf3\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8598\'3F\u8599\'3F\u8600\'3F\u8601\'3F) allow the player to move in the horizontal direction while maintaining a high or low stance. When doing this, the player will briefly hold their position before moving in the desired direction, albeit slower than when just holding left or right.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Dashing}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Players can dash forward or back with a double forward or backward tap of the Joystick (}{\f1\fs20\b1\i0\cf3\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8592\'3F\u8592\'3F and \u8594\'3F\u8594\'3F). }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 when dashing, players cannot guard and any attack that hits them will perform a knockdown. Forward dashes can be canceled by tapping back}{\f1\fs20\b1\i0\cf3\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8592\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  on the joystick to control spacing and quickly guard. Back dashes can not be canceled. After a successful dash, there is a brief few frames of recovery. Players can also dash by tapping forward or back while Evading (}{\f1\fs20\b1\i0\cf3\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8592\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 +E/}{\f1\fs20\b1\i0\cf3\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8594\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 +E).}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Evading}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Evading (E) allows players to move in a sideways direction into the foreground or background. This allows players to evade the opponent\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s attack and expose their side or back, or to change positions around the ring. Tapping (E) will dodge into the background, and tapping the Joystick up}{\f3\fs20\b0\i0\cf1\cb4\highlight4 \loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af3\uc1\u8593\'3F }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 or down}{\f1\fs20\b1\i0\cf3\cb2\highlight2 \loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8595\'3F}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  alongside Evade(E) will dash into the background or foreground. Players are invincible during the evade and for 1 frame afterward (not the recovery frames). If a player is Side Turned, they will have to wait 3 frames before they can Evade.}
\par\plain \f4\fs24\b1\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 A successful evade takes 23 frames, with 10 frames being recovery. Unsuccessful evades take longer. I ballpark 28 frames. This is taken from }{\f5\fs24\b0\i1 Virtua Fighter }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 but }{\f5\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 may need more recovery frames on evades to prevent evades from being the dominant strategy.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 A note on Jumping and Crouching}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f5\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  will go down in history as the first fighting game to intentionally remove Jumping and Crouching. Simply put, this is not a title with an air game, and ducking under and jumping over attacks are not necessary due to the stance guard system. In low stance, the player will go lower to the ground, but not enough to avoid high attacks. Executing some power attacks may put players in the air, and getting hit during one will deal 1.5 points of damage and trigger a knockdown.}}