{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \fi360\ltrch\loch {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Attack Phases}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Attack phases function as they do in other fighters, with an execution phase, an active phase, and a recovery phase. Attacks take significantly longer to perform compared to other fighters, due to their high damage and }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92s focus on reading opponent movement and striking at the right opportunity. The frame data from }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Karate Tournament }{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 and the }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Samurai Shodown}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0  series would make for good reference. }
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Knockback}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Ground control plays a heavy role in }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Kumite}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Attacks cause a large and equal amount of knockback whether they are blocked or eaten. In }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Karate Tournament}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 , the player can be pushed out of the arena by knockback from default position in 6 normal hits or 3 power hits, assuming they don\loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8217\'92t move. This suggests that power attacks cause exactly double the knockback of normal attacks. Knockback will have to be examined against punch/kicks, and a decision will have to be made whether blocking players will be able to respond with an attack, if they have frame advantage.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Attack Trades}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 If both players trade:}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 -The attack that does the higher damage wins}
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 -If the damage is equal, neither player will receive damage, a visual indicator will appear to let players know that the trade was equal, and both players will be pushed back the amount of a power attack. Players cannot be knocked off the arena in this way and will instead land one step away from the edge.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0 Attack Tracking}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0\ul\ulc0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 Tracking functions the same as in }{\f1\fs24\b0\i1 Virtua Fighter}{\f0\fs24\b0\i0 . Attacks do not automatically track, but if the opponent does any button-based action*, the attack will track and they will get hit. Power attacks have long execution times, so the changes of tracking the opponent are increased since during this time, the opponent is likely to press a button.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0
\par\plain {\f0\fs24\b0\i0 *I call it a button-based action rather than \loch\af0\hich\af0\dbch\af0\uc1\u8220\'93If the opponent presses any button\u8221\'94 because the input buffer should not count towards tracking. The button must actually register with a player action in order to track.}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\b0\i0}